today on dude food we're making our take
on a BLT with East Coast swordfish and
basil mayonnaise
[Music]
so we got this really beautiful East
Coast swordfish you really want to shop
for whatever is the best you know if
swordfish is nice to get that if tunas
nice to get that it's all about what is
the best and that's gonna make the best
sandwich you really want to look for a
fish that has a little more fat content
because that's gonna kind of compete
with the with the bacon we're gonna put
in this so we're gonna start off by by
cooking the bacon turn it on medium heat
and you want to make sure when you're
when usually cast-iron pan you kind of
put a little bit of olive oil in there
get it nice and glistening and even when
you're done washing you never want to
wash it in the sink you always want to
pull it off and wipe it down with a
little bit of olive oil in the pan or
grapeseed oil something to keep it moist
and so it doesn't rust and the beauty of
these pans is there's no like real hot
spot you get a crank in the beginning
turn it down and then it's gonna hold
his feet really well probably gonna take
about three three to four minutes to
close about a minute and a half two
minutes on each side okay I want to show
her slice up the fish we have a piece of
swordfish with it with the skin on it
you just want to kind of remove that
because that's not edible we want to get
a nice thin piece flap it on the on the
pan and cook it within you know ten
seconds per side rest your hand on top
of the fish try not to cut the top of
your hand off and then just go through
cut it right in half
season both sides salt and pepper all
right put the bacon out you can see it's
getting get a little bit of color around
it but it's not that crispy bacon to
usun when you pull it pull it out of the
oven if you want it to be kind of soft
on the sandwich yeah let's get the fish
on again you want a ripping hot pan so
use like a grape seed oil or canola oil
for this you can see a little bit of
smoke coming out through the side that's
when you want hit it take it off the
heat a little bit and you want to cook
this fish you want to cook it 75% on one
side let it flip it your bass is just
touching the heat to it and cooking it
through so that's cooking I'm gonna show
you how to toast the bread normally we
put a little bit of butter on it but
since we have this that's this great
cast-iron pan with all this bacon fat in
it you don't want let that go to waste
just regular white Pullman low if you
like Wonder Bread use Wonder Bread this
you want to turn the pain down a little
bit lower than what you had for baking
the fish is starting to get a weight
around the edge
you got that nice char you're
controlling the heat there's no burnt
spots it's nice golden brown you're
gonna get under there with that spatula
get all that Brown bit off give it a
flip face you basically by the time you
flip the one flip the others going back
to get the other one out again it's it's
it's cooked through but it's not it's
not gonna be dry or overcooked so the
last part of this dish is the basil
mayonnaise we're gonna get a pot of
boiling water and we're gonna get the
basil we're just gonna blanch it very
quickly in salted water about 30 seconds
and then shock it in an ice bath and
you're gonna squeeze it like Jeff just
did you guys we use all that liquid
outta the shocking shocking me is
getting ice water ice cubes and then you
want it you want to basically reduce the
cooking temperature of it very very
rapidly and that's gonna retain that
green color all right okay we're gonna
have the eggs in here three egg yolks
and some lemon juice well that's funny
you might have to add a little touch of
water
the olive oil a little bit at a gun
so you want to make sure you had a
little bit of salt and pepper in there
you always want to make sure you season
everything all right so now we're gonna
put together the sandwich slather some
of the basil mayonnaise on top Brad you
give me a piece of swordfish your throw
on top of that yeah but you want each
point to have part of the swordfish you
know you don't want one plate just to
have bacon and tomato and not have
swordfish put a couple pieces of bacon
on a little bit of lettuce I mean if you
don't have big lettuce you can use
iceberg you can use romaine whatever
kind of whatever kind of salad green you
want you want to put on there works fine
so just a couple tomatoes on top a
little more basil mayonnaise on top all
right cut that so we can try that
beautiful look at that
bacon swordfish basil mayonnaise let's
just choose David Cheers huh so that's
how I take on a BLT thanks for watching
dude food and don't forget to subscribe
we'll see on the next episode watch our
office mates get smashed on a
traditional Chinese medicine snake wine
then chase your Cobra juice with a spicy
bacon infused Bloody Mary and then hit
the sushi buffet for some owning that's
a delicacy that's actually the gonads of
sea urchins or keep it local with a
chargrilled spicy jalapeno burger only
on tasted